h2. Prefuse

h3. statement

Prefuse is a Java-based toolkit for building interactive information visualization applications. It was developed until 2007 by its original author, "Jeffrey Heer":http://hci.stanford.edu/jheer/. Prefuse is licensed under the terms of a "BSD license":http://github.com/Sciss/Prefuse/blob/master/licenses/Prefuse-License.txt and can be freely used for both commercial and non-commercial purposes. The original website is at "prefuse.org":http://prefuse.org/.

This project at "GitHub":http://github.com/Sciss/Prefuse is a fork by Hanns Holger Rutz which aims at providing easy maven access for several projects which depend on Prefuse. All changes are released under the same original license.

h3. changes

The following changes and refactorings have been applied on the original code as published through the "beta-20071021 snapshot":http://sourceforge.net/projects/prefuse/files/prefuse/beta-20071021/:

* since I use Prefuse in Scala environments, the building is now done with the simple-build-tool instead of ant. Nevertheless, the source code and resulting jar are merely Java 1.4, so you can still use the build without any Scala dependencies.
* it builds with sbt 0.7.7, using normal targets @update@ and @compile@. the parent project contains two sub projects @core@ and @demos@, where the original plain library corresponds to @core@.
* the original @readme.txt@ has been renamed to @readme_original.txt@
* all the license files have been moved into the @licenses@ folder
* the ant files have been removed: @ant.jar@, @build.xml@ and the shell scripts for running ant
* the eclipse files @.classpath@ and @.project@ have been removed
* the directory structure has been changed to reflect the default layout of sbt
* an arbitrary version number 0.20 has been chosen as offset for the artefact
* the sources have been converted from latin1 to utf8 encoding
* the api docs have been removed from the source folder. the can be rebuild as scaladoc files with sbt target @doc@.
* several occurances of @AbstractTreeMap.Entry@ have been corrected in @prefuse.util.collections@ so javadoc doesn't choke on them
* the @data@ folder was split into @demos/src/main/resources@ and @sample_data@
* a demo selector class @prefuse.demos.Demos@ has been added. To run it: @sbt 'project demos' run@
* @TreeTest@ has been modified so that it won't depend on the @TreeMap@ demo anymore (it has a copy of the data set now).

h3. linking

If you develop a Scala project using sbt and want it to depend on Prefuse, you can now add the following line to your project file (sbt 0.7):

pre. val prefuse = "de.sciss" % "prefuse-core" % "0.20"

h3. todo

* It seems as if scaladoc does not fully work with the java sources. Although the class tree is properly build, the comments seem to have gone. This issue must be resolved in a future release.
* The JUnit 3 tests compile, but I don't know how to launch them. @sbt test@ does not seem to see them. If you are a JUnit expert and know how solve this issue, please get in touch.
